zedboard-axi-dma
================

Demonstration project for the AXI DMA Engine on the ZedBoard

## Requirements

This port is designed for Vivado 2025.2 and Vitis 2025.2.

* Vivado 2025.2
* Vitis 2025.2
* [ZedBoard](http://zedboard.org "ZedBoard")

## Description

This project demonstrates the use of the AXI DMA Engine IP for transferring
data between a custom IP block and memory. A tutorial for recreating this project
from the Vivado GUI can be found here:

http://www.fpgadeveloper.com/2014/08/using-the-axi-dma-in-vivado.html

## Build instructions

This port does not require you to create Vivado or Vitis projects by hand.

### Linux

1. Create the Vivado project:
   ```
   cd Vivado
   ./build.sh
   ```
2. Build the bitstream and export the XSA:
   ```
   ./build-bitstream.sh
   ```
3. Build the Vitis workspace, platform, and application:
   ```
   cd ../Vitis
   ./build-vitis.sh
   ```
4. Open Vitis and select `Vitis/workspace` as the workspace.
5. Connect and power the ZedBoard.
6. Program the FPGA and run `zedboard_axi_dma_test_app`.

### Windows

1. Run `Vivado\\build.bat` to create the Vivado project.
2. Run `vivado -mode batch -source build-bitstream.tcl` from the `Vivado` directory.
3. Run `Vitis\\build-vitis.bat` to create the Vitis workspace.

The hardware project is created against the Zynq part directly. If you do not have the old
Avnet ZedBoard board file installed, the build still works because the script imports the
built-in `ZedBoard` PS preset instead of relying on `em.avnet.com:zed:part0:1.4`.

## Troubleshooting

Check the following if the project fails to build or generate a bitstream:

### 1. Are you using the correct tool versions?
Check the version specified in the Requirements section of this readme file.

### 2. Did you run the scripted flow in order?
Create the Vivado project first, then build/export the XSA, then run the Vitis build script.

### 3. Did you copy/clone the repo into a short directory structure?
Vivado doesn't cope well with long directory structures, so copy/clone the repo into a short directory structure such as
`C:\projects\`. When working in long directory structures, you can get errors relating to missing files, particularly files 
that are normally generated by Vivado (FIFOs, etc).

## License

Feel free to modify the code for your specific application.

## Fork and share

If you port this project to another hardware platform, please send me the
code or push it onto GitHub and send me the link so I can post it on my
website. The more people that benefit, the better.

## About us

This project was developed by [Opsero Inc.](http://opsero.com "Opsero Inc."),
a tight-knit team of FPGA experts delivering FPGA products and design services to start-ups and tech companies. 
Follow our blog, [FPGA Developer](http://www.fpgadeveloper.com "FPGA Developer"), for news, tutorials and
updates on the awesome projects we work on.
